.TH BASE 1 "March 2014" "base 1.1.2" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
base \- base directory environment
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B . base
.RI [ label ]
.br
.B base --help
.br
.B base --version
.PP
.B bcd
.RI [ path ]
.br
.B base_deactivate
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B base
creates an environment with a base directory.  Execute \fBbase\fR from the
base directory using "." at the beginning, so that it is executed within your
current environment, as follows:
.PP
	\fB. base\fR [\fIlabel\fR]
.PP
The \fIlabel\fR can be used to identify the environment.  If you do not
specify one, then the name of the base directory is used.
.PP
The prompt and title of the terminal change according to what directory you
are in.  When within the base directory, the label in brackets and the current
path within the base directory are displayed.  For example, when in the src
directory under a base environment labelled "app", the prompt would be
displayed as follows:
.PP
	[app] /src$
.PP
When outside the base directory, the label in parenthesis and the current path
are displayed.  For example, when in the /etc directory outside of a base
environment labelled "app", the prompt would be displayed as follows:
.PP
	(app) /etc$
.PP
If an environment variable named BASE_NO_TITLE exists, then the title is not
changed.  This option is intended for use in terminals that do not have
titles.
.PP
.B base
adds two functions to your environment: \fBbcd\fR and \fBbase_deactivate\fR.
.PP
The \fBbcd\fR function changes to directories relative to the base directory,
using the tab key for auto-completion.  Similar to how the \fBcd\fR command
changes to your HOME directory when no arguments are given, \fBbcd\fR changes
to your base directory when no arguments are given.
.PP
The \fBbase_deactivate\fR function removes the effects of this script and
restores previous settings.  Note that nested base environments are not
supported.
.SH CUSTOMIZATION
Environments can be customized by placing a script named .base in the base
directory.  Such scripts can define functions named _base_activate_pre,
_base_activate_post, _base_deactivate_pre, and/or _base_deactivate_post to
specify commands to be run before activation, after activation, before
deactivation, and after deactivation respectively.  If there are any
side-effects when running one of the activation callbacks, take care to undo
them in one of the deactivation callbacks.
.PP
A utility function named _base_select, which allows the user to make a
selection from a number of options, is available for use in all callbacks
except _base_deactivation_post.  The first argument is a label that represents
what is being selected, and remaining arguments are the options.  The result
is stored in the variable BASE_SELECTION.  If no options were available, the
variable is unset.  If only one option is available, then that option is used
without prompting.  Users select an option by number, and any invalid input
results in the first option being selected.
.PP
Some example base scripts are provided in the share directory, with
documentation in the comments.  Use the scripts by linking to them, or copy
and modify them as needed.
.SH REQUIREMENTS
\fBbase\fR requires a BASH shell.
.SH AVAILABILITY
Homepage:
  http://www.extellisys.com/products/base
.PP
Source:
  https://github.com/extellisys/base
.SH AUTHOR
Travis Cardwell <travis.cardwell@extellisys.com>
.SH REPORTING BUGS
Please submit any issues to:
  https://github.com/extellisys/base/issues
.PP
If you do not have a GitHub account, feel free to submit issues via email to
<bugs@extellisys.com>.
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright \(co 2011-2014, Extellisys
.PP
Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a copy
of this software and associated documentation files (the "Software"), to deal
in the Software without restriction, including without limitation the rights
to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense, and/or sell
copies of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the Software is
furnished to do so, subject to the following conditions:
.PP
The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included in all
copies or substantial portions of the Software.
.PP
THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR
IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,
FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE
AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER
LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM,
OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE
SOFTWARE.
